README.md, before:

This is the puppet configuration for my VPSs, home file server and also any scratch VMs I spin up at home. Although it reflects my requirements for the servers I run, other people may find it useful so I'm putting it up on github.

This does not use a puppet master as I'm only managing a small number of nodes. Configs can be installed with `puppet apply` on each node instead.

I'm using Debian Stretch and Puppet 4.10 at present. Some Puppet 4 features such as EPP templates are used. Most site specific data is managed via Hiera (plus the encrypted YAML module for sensitive data). I don't generally use modules as I only need Debian support and don't want the overhead of managing modules on each server.

## Modules

The configuration implements installation of the software below as modules:

* apticron: handle regular system package updates
* backups: scheduled database backups
* dovecot: IMAP mailbox server
* essential: install general utility packages
* etckeeper: store /etc in git
* dehydrated: generate SSL certificates
* nfs_server: local network NFS server
* nginx: web server
* ntpd: synchronise system time
* opendkim: email signing service
* php: programming language for web applications
* pflogsumm: Postfix reporting
* postfix: email, both for main relay host and satellites
* postgres: database engine
* pup_check: custom script to check puppet config
* radicale: CalDAV/CardDAV calendar/contacts service
* spamassassin: email filtering service
* sshd: ssh server
* ssh_public: install ssh authorized keys
* sudo: controlled root access
* ttrss: Tiny Tiny RSS web application

## Bootstrap

Do a basic install of Debian, selecting ssh-server as the only extra task.

Run the bootstrap script to install Puppet PC1 and clone this repo.

```
wget -qO - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rupertl/vps-puppet/master/scripts/bootstrap.sh | bash
```

This will also install the [encrypted YAML](https://github.com/TomPoulton/hiera-eyaml) gem.

Finally, copy the EYAML keys to `/etc/puppetlabs/secure/eyaml/keys/` and encrypted YAML files under `hieradata`. Obviously if you are not me you won't have these, so you'll need to regenerate any encrypted Hiera files.

## Use

```
$ puppet apply /etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/production/manifests/site.pp
```

## License

License: 3-clause new BSD; see LICENSE file.

Commit message:

Debian Buster/Puppet 5 from Debian package

README.md, after:

This is the puppet configuration for my VPSs, home file server and also any scratch VMs I spin up at home. Although it reflects my requirements for the servers I run, other people may find it useful so I'm putting it up on github.

This does not use a puppet master as I'm only managing a small number of nodes. Configs can be installed with `puppet apply` on each node instead.

This works with Debian Buster and the version of puppet 5.5 included by Debian. Previous versions used the version of puppet packaged by Puppetlabs but the stock Debian one is modern enough now. Note that as part of this change, this repo should now be cloned to /etc/puppet instead of /etc/puppetlabs.

Most site specific data is managed via Hiera (plus the encrypted YAML module for sensitive data). I don't generally use modules as I only need Debian support and don't want the overhead of managing modules on each server.

## Modules

The configuration implements installation of the software below as modules:

* apticron: handle regular system package updates
* backups: scheduled database backups
* dovecot: IMAP mailbox server
* essential: install general utility packages
* etckeeper: store /etc in git
* dehydrated: generate SSL certificates
* nfs_server: local network NFS server
* nginx: web server
* ntpd: synchronise system time
* opendkim: email signing service
* php: programming language for web applications
* pflogsumm: Postfix reporting
* postfix: email, both for main relay host and satellites
* postgres: database engine
* pup_check: custom script to check puppet config
* radicale: CalDAV/CardDAV calendar/contacts service
* spamassassin: email filtering service
* sshd: ssh server
* ssh_public: install ssh authorized keys
* sudo: controlled root access
* ttrss: Tiny Tiny RSS web application

## Bootstrap

Do a basic install of Debian, selecting ssh-server as the only extra task.

Run the bootstrap script to install Puppet PC1 and clone this repo.

```
wget -qO - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rupertl/vps-puppet/master/scripts/bootstrap.sh | bash
```

This will also install the [encrypted YAML](https://github.com/TomPoulton/hiera-eyaml) gem.

Finally, copy the EYAML keys to `/etc/puppet/secure/eyaml/keys/` and encrypted YAML files under `hieradata`. Obviously if you are not me you won't have these, so you'll need to regenerate any encrypted Hiera files.

## Use

```
$ puppet apply /etc/puppet/code/environments/production/manifests/site.pp
```

## License

License: 3-clause new BSD; see LICENSE file.
